docs/google-oauth.md, before:

# Google AI Pro/Ultra OAuth Authentication

This guide explains how to authenticate with Google AI using OAuth, which is required for Google AI Pro and Google AI Ultra subscribers.

## Quick Start

```bash
agent auth google
```

Select "Google AI Pro/Ultra (OAuth)" when prompted.

## Authentication Methods

### 1. OAuth Login (Recommended for Subscribers)

If you have a Google AI Pro or Google AI Ultra subscription, use OAuth authentication:

1. Run `agent auth google`
2. Select "Google AI Pro/Ultra (OAuth)"
3. A browser window will open with Google's login page
4. Sign in with your Google account that has the subscription
5. Authorize the application
6. The browser will automatically close and return you to the terminal

Your credentials will be stored securely and automatically refreshed when needed.

### 2. API Key (Alternative)

If you prefer to use an API key instead of OAuth:

1. Go to [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey)
2. Create an API key
3. Either:
   - Set the environment variable: `GOOGLE_API_KEY=your-key`
   - Run `agent auth google` and select "Manually enter API Key"

## Available Models

After authentication, you can use Gemini models:

- `google/gemini-3-pro` - Gemini 3 Pro (alias for gemini-3-pro-preview)
- `google/gemini-2.5-flash` - Gemini 2.5 Flash
- `google/gemini-2.5-pro` - Gemini 2.5 Pro
- And other models available in the Google AI API

## Subscription Benefits

With Google AI Pro/Ultra subscription via OAuth:

- Access to premium models
- Higher rate limits
- No per-token costs (included in subscription)

## Technical Details

### OAuth Endpoints

- Authorization: `https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth`
- Token: `https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token`
- Redirect: Local server on random available port

### Scopes

The following OAuth scopes are requested:

- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform`
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.email`
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.profile`

### Token Storage

OAuth tokens are stored in `~/.local/share/agent/auth.json` with the following structure:

```json
{
  "google": {
    "type": "oauth",
    "refresh": "<refresh_token>",
    "access": "<access_token>",
    "expires": <timestamp_ms>
  }
}
```

### Token Refresh

Tokens are automatically refreshed when:

- The access token is expired
- Within 5 minutes of expiration (for reliability)

## Troubleshooting

### "Token refresh failed"

If you see this error, try re-authenticating:

```bash
agent logout google
agent auth google
```

### "Authorization failed"

Make sure you:

1. Have an active Google AI Pro/Ultra subscription
2. Are using the correct Google account
3. Have granted all requested permissions

### Rate Limiting

Even with a subscription, you may encounter rate limits. The agent will automatically retry with backoff.

## Environment Variables

| Variable         | Description                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `GOOGLE_API_KEY` | API key for Google AI (alternative to OAuth) |

## See Also

- [Google AI Documentation](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/oauth)
- [Gemini CLI Authentication](https://google-gemini.github.io/gemini-cli/docs/get-started/authentication.html)

Commit message:

Fix Google OAuth authentication by switching to out-of-band flow
- Replace localhost redirect with urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob:auto
- Remove complex local server setup that was causing issues
- Users now copy authorization code from browser and paste in terminal
- Update documentation to reflect new authentication flow
- Simplify code by removing ~150 lines of server management code

Fixes issue #78: Google authorization redirect issues

docs/google-oauth.md, after:

# Google AI Pro/Ultra OAuth Authentication

This guide explains how to authenticate with Google AI using OAuth, which is required for Google AI Pro and Google AI Ultra subscribers.

## Quick Start

```bash
agent auth google
```

Select "Google AI Pro/Ultra (OAuth)" when prompted.

## Authentication Methods

### 1. OAuth Login (Recommended for Subscribers)

If you have a Google AI Pro or Google AI Ultra subscription, use OAuth authentication:

1. Run `agent auth google`
2. Select "Google AI Pro/Ultra (OAuth)"
3. A browser window will open with Google's login page
4. Sign in with your Google account that has the subscription
5. Authorize the application
6. Copy the authorization code displayed on the page
7. Paste the code back in the terminal

Your credentials will be stored securely and automatically refreshed when needed.

### 2. API Key (Alternative)

If you prefer to use an API key instead of OAuth:

1. Go to [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey)
2. Create an API key
3. Either:
   - Set the environment variable: `GOOGLE_API_KEY=your-key`
   - Run `agent auth google` and select "Manually enter API Key"

## Available Models

After authentication, you can use Gemini models:

- `google/gemini-3-pro` - Gemini 3 Pro (alias for gemini-3-pro-preview)
- `google/gemini-2.5-flash` - Gemini 2.5 Flash
- `google/gemini-2.5-pro` - Gemini 2.5 Pro
- And other models available in the Google AI API

## Subscription Benefits

With Google AI Pro/Ultra subscription via OAuth:

- Access to premium models
- Higher rate limits
- No per-token costs (included in subscription)

## Technical Details

### OAuth Endpoints

- Authorization: `https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth`
- Token: `https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token`
- Redirect: Out-of-band flow (`urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob:auto`)

### Scopes

The following OAuth scopes are requested:

- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform`
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.email`
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.profile`

### Token Storage

OAuth tokens are stored in `~/.local/share/agent/auth.json` with the following structure:

```json
{
  "google": {
    "type": "oauth",
    "refresh": "<refresh_token>",
    "access": "<access_token>",
    "expires": <timestamp_ms>
  }
}
```

### Token Refresh

Tokens are automatically refreshed when:

- The access token is expired
- Within 5 minutes of expiration (for reliability)

## Troubleshooting

### "Token refresh failed"

If you see this error, try re-authenticating:

```bash
agent logout google
agent auth google
```

### "Authorization failed"

Make sure you:

1. Have an active Google AI Pro/Ultra subscription
2. Are using the correct Google account
3. Have granted all requested permissions

### Rate Limiting

Even with a subscription, you may encounter rate limits. The agent will automatically retry with backoff.

## Environment Variables

| Variable         | Description                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `GOOGLE_API_KEY` | API key for Google AI (alternative to OAuth) |

## See Also

- [Google AI Documentation](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/oauth)
- [Gemini CLI Authentication](https://google-gemini.github.io/gemini-cli/docs/get-started/authentication.html)
